---
title: Running Journal 2024 — 2024-07-23
uid: 20240723T0817
created: '2024-07-23'
updated: '2025-07-21'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2024
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

- ☐

  Stefan email

  - ☐

    Back when I joined Medtronic you gave me a task to do that was right up my alley: the interface project would involve:

  - ☐

        \* understanding the problem, 

  - ☐

        \* creating a database of some kind to become the SOT for all our interfaces, 

  - ☐

        \* modeling a schema for that database that could accomodate the entire problem space, and

  - ☐

        \* building a tool to generate miscellaneous artifacts from that data

\

- - ☐

    All of those tasks matched well with both my skill set and my interests. And all but the first of those tasks have been completed (multiple times over, in fact). That first task has proved harder to get a handle on but I think if finally has been achieved.

\

- - ☐

    But the problem is more difficult than I first imagined. There was always a task that didn’t make it to my imagination about what the solution would eventually be: I didn’t take into account that none of the early work was worth much without getting people to actually use the solution I would offer. And for that, we need a salesperson.

\

- - ☐

    The phase of this project we are in now, we have both agreed, is that of evangelizing (selling) the solution to the customers, convincing them that this technology is a solution to a very real problem they have NOW. It doesn’t even really matter what solution is offered because the hurdle remains: we need to convince the developers that 1) there is a data management problem that is slowng down THEIR progress as they develop software solutions, and 2) there IS a better way to manage that large amount of data that MUST be managed for a target system this complex.

\

- - ☐

    Strengths and Weaknesses:

    - ☐

      Strengths

      - ☐

        Recognizing the broad-brush problems that are negatively affecting the software development team  as we transition from the prototype mentality to a formal product mentality (we have a long way to go)

      - ☐

        Building tools to address these problems

      - ☐

        Teaching

        - ☐

          How to use the new tools once we have buy-in that such tools will be employed

        - ☐

          New ways to do software development

    - ☐

      Weaknesses

      - ☐

        Evangelism/selling changes to getting the work done is not a thing I am good at. This sort of work is heavily dependent on:

        - ☐

          forming  new relationships with people

        - ☐

          finding a way to show the customer how THIS solution addresses THEIR problem(s)

\

- - ☐

    I have lost confidence that the Interface Project will provide enough value to the Hugo Program to warrant the amount of work done, the work still to do versus the payoff. Much as I hate to admit this, I am afriad it may be time to stop work there and just write off all of the effort that has gone into the project so far. It's hard to dump such a significant effort but we should be careful not to fall for the Sunk Cost Fallacy ([https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunk_cost](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sunk_cost)).

- - ☐

    Even our own team (Tom and Lalitha) don't seem to have any confidence that modeling, in general, and the interface project, in particular, don't seem supportive. The usual problem is in the way: no time to do it "right" but still time to do it over.

- - ☐

    Other tasks that could be valuable to the team:

    - ☐

      Polarion migration/integration

    - ☐

      Reorganization of the repository folders

    - ☐

      Requirements rework

    - ☐

      Variant flags handling
