---
title: Running Journal 2024 — 2024-07-15
uid: 20240715T0840
created: '2024-07-15'
updated: '2026-04-27'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2024
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

- ☐

  Monday meeting with the team

  - ☐

    Tom doesn't want to talk about these "little" details

  - ☐

    He insists "almost everything is in the database" --but 1) that isn't true (unless we really change what the database means) and 2) things are the same if and only if they are exactly the same...almost everything translates to 'some things are not there'

  - ☐

    CLASSY and the move to database/generation comes up

    - ☐

      Stefan says "do we need to do this now?"

    - ☐

      My response "no, we don't *need* to do it ever...that has been the response *every PI* since the project started

  - ☐

    Tom leaves the meeting at an hour in because he has another meeting to attend

    - ☐

      once again we don't take/have time to delve into the details that need to be ironed out

    - ☐

      but also, it won't work to just make some decisions about those details and proceed

    - ☐

      ergo, we stand still on those decisions

- ☐

  Stefan:

  - ☐

    this is why so little progress has been made on the interface project--

- ☐

  I'm ready to throw in the towel today. fuck it. i give up because it just isn't worth the emotional cost to fight the battle(s). Rapidly approaching the point of apathy, just accepting that it will not be put into effect.

  - ☐

    Point: I bet Sebastian didn't ask a bunch of people how they thought his script to produce the .m files should work. He just wrote it and it was accepted as the way it would be done.

- ☐

  Couple of hours later

  - ☐

    Maybe the problem is this: I've lost confidence in this project. I think it hit me like a ton of bricks today (a nagging voice has been suggesting for awhile now) -- this is never going to take hold. No one (except maybe me and Stefan) wants this. No one cares at all. Not even two of our team, Tom and Lalitha, think this is worth doing.

- ☐

  Then, a session with Joelle and I am angry

  - ☐

    She pushed me to tackle this hard thing, playing the evangelist role with the teams, because it was going to be a growing/learning step for me. I see that but I am also having a hard time shaking the conclusion that Rosetta is never going to be used by anyone...same old story I have seen so many times before.

  - ☐

    This session with her is so much harder than any before. Why? I have been willing to tackle other hard things with her in the past but I'm having trouble with this one. Anger comes out (I know that's just cover for fear/insecurity/hurt feelings) and I can't seem to let go of it.

\

\

\

## See also

- [[Running]]
