---
title: Running Journal 2024 — 2024-10-02
uid: 20241002T1703
created: '2024-10-02'
updated: '2025-07-21'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2024
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

- ☐

  a note for Tom but I haven't sent it yet:

  - ☐

    *some questions for you:*

    - ☐

      *Whence can insert the contents of a file in a particular spot as the generic messages.md.in template file is processed for a particular message. The insertion relies on the ...md filename that is being constructed: if a file by that name is found (and here is the thrust of the question) the file is read and its contents is poured into the building .md file. Works great and I think is flexible enough that it will serve us just fine. Here's the question: the process of 'finding' that special fllename has to know what folder to look in, but that's a little bit complicated now with my set of folders getting merged into your set of files. Here are the folders of interest that might be used to hold these insertion-content files--can we pick one of these as the standard place to put these files?*

    - ☐

      *hugo-architecture-site\docs\messages -- the folder where we put all of the .md files produced from the .xml files in the troika/HEX_FILES/Messages folder. For Interface instances this folder would be hugo-architecture-site\docs\interfaces*

    - ☐

      *The Message hmtl files live in the hugo-architecture-site\software_architecture\messages folder -- but your build script wipes that away and rebuilds all of the software_architecture stuff each time so that isn't a good place to put these insertion content files.*

    - ☐

      *Troika has a folder to receive all the .md files in one place: hugo-architecture-site\troika\MD_FILES. At the moment this is the folder where the insertion files reside. But this folder will soon be deprecated because we will want to write all the .md files that are generated into the various folders under hugo-architecture-site\docs soon so that is not a good place for them to reside.*

    - ☐

      *hugo-architecture-site\toika\MD_IN_FILES is the home of the Whence-read template expansion files. No separate folders there, just a handful of template files with the most important and first one being message.md.in.*

    - ☐

      *Given all of that, any suggestions about where these insertion-content files should be stored?*

**

**

\
