---
title: Running Journal 2024 — 2024-12-20
uid: 20241220T0959
created: '2024-12-20'
updated: '2025-07-21'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2024
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

\

\

\

------------------------------------------------------------------------

i built the Whence way of doing image imports before we made the decision to use markdown everywhere. i am not wedded to how we do this but some observations:

1\. the line above was actually inserted by Whence from a python call to insert_image(...) so one doesn't need to know how to do the html form at all.

2\. the markdown way is somewhat limited (e.g., i don't think you can set the image size with it). the html way (which is actually also the Whence way) provides more flexibility.

3\. i think (but not certain) the markdown way assumes everything resides in either a single folder somewhere or is in the same directory as the markdown document itself. that is both a pro and a con but worth considering.

4\. here are the things i think we need to have a good solution to offer the team:

    - an automated/easy to use tool to extract images from EA/MagicDraw modeling tools.

    - image files, however they are stored, should be under Git control. not necessarily as bundled with the markdown file(s) but somehow versioned so that changes originating in a modeling tool can be detected and tracked.

    - to support an ancient presentation form like .pdf or .docx, i think we need to be able to specify height, width, justification, etc. the way we can do with html. even for web page presentations these kinds of tweaks can be important.

5\. we could allow all three ways without much trouble--downside being that everyone will use whatever form they want and so violating the SAMENESS TRUMPS EVERYTHING rule.

\- markdown syntax works fine for Whence instruction files (just getting passed through) and of course for md-only documents.

\- Whence syntax works fine, provided the SOT document is going to be pre-processed by Whence. BTW, i am in favor of adopting that as an assumption in all cases because it basically costs nothing for the writer of an md-only document but allows all Whence mechanisms (and generally python) to be embedded in the SOT file.

\- html is probably the most limited because it only works for cases where web pages are the intended final presentation mode.

\

\

\
