---
title: Running Journal 2024 — 2024-11-27
uid: 20241127T0857
created: '2024-11-27'
updated: '2025-07-21'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2024
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

- ☐

  Can we import an EA diagram to Miro for discussion?

  - ☐

    This works to move a Drawio diagram into Miro (works great:

  - ☐

    ### Import a [Draw.io](https://Draw.io) diagram

    1.  

        ☐

        In [Draw.io](https://Draw.io), open the diagram you wish to export.

    2.  

        ☐

        Cick on the **File** menu and choose **Export as** and choose **VSDX** and choose a location to save the file to.

    3.  

        ☐

        Navigate to the Miro board you wish to import the diagram to.

    4.  

        ☐

        On the Creation toolbar at left, click on **Shapes and lines**, choose **More shapes**, and click the **Import diagram** icon at the top right of the **Diagramming** panel.

    5.  

        ☐

        In the “Import diagram as a new board” dialog box, either drag and drop the .vsdx file, or click the **Choose file** button and navigate to the .vsdx file. 

    6.  

        ☐

        When the file is selected, click **Import**. 

    7.  

        ☐

        The import process will complete. Click **Go to board** to open the new board with your diagram.

- ☐

  Saving some code to do markdown indentation

SPACES_PER_HEADING_LEVEL = '\&nbsp;\&nbsp;\&nbsp;\&nbsp;\&nbsp;\&nbsp;\&nbsp;\&nbsp;'

\# \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

def insert_markdown_hyperlink(text_to_show, relative_address_md_file, target_is_local=True):

    if target_is_local:                         \# if the place to go is in this same file

        relative_address_md_file = f'#{convert_to_snakecase(relative_address_md_file)}'

       

    return f'\[{text_to_show}\]({relative_address_md_file})'

   

\# \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

def insert_markdown_heading(heading_level, heading_text, hyperlink=''):

    assert type(heading_level) is int, f'when calling "insert_markdown_heading", "heading_level" must be an integer'

    assert type(heading_text) is str, f'when calling "insert_markdown_heading", "heading_text" must be a string'

   

    \# we automatically give this heading an id so it can be used as a hyperlink

    \# target, a snake-case version of the heading text

    target_id = f'\<a id="{convert_to_snakecase(heading_text)}"\>\</a\>'

   

    indentation_string = SPACES_PER_HEADING_LEVEL \* (heading_level - 1)

    markdown_level_string = '#' \* heading_level

   

    if len(hyperlink) == 0:             \# if no hyperlink supplied

        return f'\n {target_id}\n{markdown_level_string} {indentation_string}{heading_text}  \n'

    else:                               \# else make a hyperlink

        return f'\n{markdown_level_string} {indentation_string}{insert_markdown_hyperlink(heading_text, hyperlink)}\n'

\
