---
title: Running Journal 2024 — 2024-09-30
uid: 20240930T1455
created: '2024-09-30'
updated: '2025-07-21'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2024
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

She said "take ten minutes now to write just a couple of short paragraphs about the long- and short-term WHY with respect to being sober now.

\

***Short Term***

The heroin high is like the scene in the Wizard of Oz when Dorothy (did it have to be "Dorothy"???) opens the dreary, monochrome door in Kansas to find the Technicolor Munchkins singing, lolipops growing up by the side of the road, gold bricks leading off into the future. The fireworks, the spectacular, the high...that's not the right thing to focus on, to chase after in Life. She said "...recalibrate the +5 -5 scale to just +3 -3 with the possibility of attaining the top (and bottom) scores rather than holding them back as potential extremes that I might experience.

I told her:

- ☐

  Jake watches me moving around in my office but his head rests on his paws, still, while his eyes and his eyebrows follow me very closely. I stop what I am doing and kneel down beside him to rub his ears and scratch his belly saying "I do love you, Dog."

- ☐

  I took out a Hobie Cat for an hour, by myself but without that sometimes dread of "being alone". It was lovely to just skim across the small whitecaps, going nowhere in particular but enjoying the flight.

\

***Long Term***

She said the Pillow List showed clearly how much I don't want to be a burden to my family. And I was heading down the wrong path to avoid that with the alcohol poison every day. The voice still chimes in "but what if life is going to be short anyway, and now you've tossed aside that Joy Bubble of drinking?" Today, in therapy, I saw a glimmer on the horizon, a shimmering ghostly outline of a billboard that read "there are myriad small joys all around you that, if you can just let yourself have them, see them, are worth so much more than the heroin high". Plus, of course, foregoiing the posion means I better my chances of ending life in a graceful, dignified way rather than crumbling into a disabled heap.

\

\
