---
title: Running Journal 2024 — 2024-10-16
uid: 20241016T1917
created: '2024-10-16'
updated: '2026-04-27'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2024
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

i watched a mediocre movie, Finch, about an engineer, a robot, and a dog that looked alot like Jake. the engineer died, leaving the dog in the care of the robot. it broke my heart to watch that part. not the part about the world of humans coming to an end. but the dog being left without his dad--even though he learned to love the robot (yeah, right) it was the dad leaving that hurt. and i have seen this pattern before. when i've thought about how much easier it would be to just flip the switch and stop existing, my heart goes out to Jake because i think he loves me as much as i love him. he would be fine, of course, but he would really miss me. Terese, Kiel, Hilary, and Nate would all miss me too, of course, but it feels like Jake is the one who be most bereft.

\

racked with sobbing, the wave comes back again and crashes on the beach of my dry and sandy feeling place. i tried to let the sobbing run its full course--just let it out i said to my heart, just let the howl begin and rise and fall and eventually whimper to an end. Jake came over and climbed into my lap, all 80 pounds of him, and licked my cheek where salty tears had dried. he looked concerned. probably puzzled by the moans and crying, both sounds he doesn't hear from me. but the feeling passed (only to flair up a couple of times again that evening).

\

i know this feeling will pass but tonight it seems i am hanging on by my fingernails. trying to get through it before i disappear forever. i want to tell Joelle--but its time for me to be strong enough to go it alone. a voice inside keeps saying "i don't know if i can/will make it" but i don't know what that means really.

\

\

\

## See also

- [[Running]]
