---
title: Running Journal 2025 — 2025-05-01
uid: 20250501T1738
created: '2025-05-01'
updated: '2025-07-22'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2025
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

@Baker, Tom @Joerg, Stefan

The SWAD generation was easy to run. Word generated a redline and I went through it thoroughly. I know there is some urgency about getting this out so I put copies of both the generated file and the redline in a folder "RE00356519 EIN Software Architecture - Rev L Working" under our "DHF Documents" folder.

The generated file is not ready for release yet. There are a number of problems that need correction: some figure numbers are wrong because figures were removed (e.g., 59, 60, 61) nearly all the Safety Classification B and Safety Classification C entries are corrupted to read just "Safety Classification   " -- oddly it appears that the A entries came through okay?? there are some classifications missing in the version K document, i think where the stereotypes that were previously  many have been changed to  but not all of them these are mostly not converted to the \<software names: subsystem library resource package the trademark symbol after Hugo did not transfer reliably giving:   "Hugoï¿½ Robotic-Assisted Surgical" also "Does not handle video stream ï¿½ only handles configuration of identifier, boot delay, and firmware" at least one diagram (figure 102 GUI Common Components) appears to be corrupted in the EA file

It is possible, I suppose that there is some setting or trick I didn't know about (like the "binary" switch) that is necessary to get a good generated result.

I am happy to fix all of these problems if that is our best strategy. In that case, we should discuss whether it makes more sense to just correct errors in the generated file and call it good. Or perhaps some/all of these problems should be tracked down and corrected back at the source. I hope we plan to move to a Rosetta/Whence/markdown way of generating this file for the next iteration so my guess is we want to do the first thing to get Rev L out ASAP. Still, I maintain it would be just about the same amount of work to just move to the markdown way of doing things so that is my vote. I didn't do anything to try to fix any of these problems because I didn't know which path we want to take.

\

\
