---
title: Running Journal 2025 — 2025-05-06 (2)
uid: 20250506T0710
created: '2025-05-06'
updated: '2025-07-22'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2025
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

**Something Has Changed. The Meta-conversation with Joelle.**

****

This thing has come up again: that I should either give it my all this last year of my career or I should leave the job. Coasting a bit isn't okay with her. When I talked to Terese about it she pointed out that J has not (we think) worked in the corporate/tech world where I dwell. (And her husband hasn't either, we know he has been a teacher.) So she doesn't know that this world tolerates/expects/sees this sort of relaxed attitude everywhere. The difference between a hard working star and a just put in the hours waste of a salary is stark. I think I've worked hard to bring the changes I think would be beneficial to the world(s) where I live. I have given it my all (I hope). But now...

\

But now I am older. That means wiser and less energetic. It means that I don't give a shit about "the long haul" because I will never see the results, even if the results turn out to be a spectacular success. But also, I have come to a sobering conclusion: I was flat wrong. The vision I have had for the bright future of SW with an eye to the bigger picture and an appreciation of how much value there is (in the long run) to paying down technical debt, learning new techniques and strategies, investing in the future improvements even if it means the present progress takes a hit as the necessary sacrifice--none of that was ever going to occur.

\

I have come to believe something I have expressed to others many times: the urgency, the pressure to 'get it done', the deadlines with their dire consequences if not met...those are all complete and utter fabrication. Totally bogus bullshit that feels, to the higher-ups who only look at the spreadsheets of dollars, dates, headcount, and schedule, like the best way to get the most out of the people (like me) in the trenches actually getting the work done. Somewhat reminiscent of Trump (although I don't think there is quite so much malice in my example), it's just a huge lie. None of it is true. Those deadlines don't matter. They are not the deciding factor when providence decides if the company, the product, this manager or that manager is successful. It's just a strategy to try to make things move faster than they are moving right now. That's all. The pressure those expectations put on the worker bees is significant and unrelenting. And it is not going to change.

\

This realization has punched me in the gut in the last year or so. I "knew" this was true for some time but now I get it, grok it, in a deep emotional way. And without even a glimmer of hope that things might someday change--but knowing that even if so I won't be there to see it--I have lost my enthusiasm for the "fight" that I have been waging for decades. Joelle said perhaps I should not think of it as a "fight" or a "struggle". That there is too much adversity in that way of approaching the task. That maybe I should think of it as a gift that I am offering. Maybe it will be accepted, appreciated, adopted, but maybe it won't and that would be okay. But realistically, how often is a gift given (especially one that is perceived as so valuable) only to be refused by the receiver--how often is that really ok with the one making the offer?

\

Getting back to the meta-conversation...I know for sure that something has changed in my relationship with Joelle over the last year or so. She has been the best therapist I have ever had, by far, but now I sometimes wonder if I should stop seeing her. When it comes up for me, I always wonder if the change is in me--have I grown enough emotionally that I don't need the loving, nurturing mother figure any more?--but today I wonder if it is something else entirely. Perhaps it is about this end-of-job and end-of-career thing. This time the friction comes up again between us, but it isn't the first time I have noticed it. Maybe the third or fourth. Those other times I didn't want to really look hard at what was happening but this morning I can't really even see past it. My sense (again, not for the first time) is that J's "stuff" is getting in the way here. At least some of the problem is that she feels strongly that I should stick with it, give it my all, do the most I can for this last year. Or else I should retire sooner than that. That's what made me angry (covering over my feeling shame that I would consider such a tawdry, lazy approach to my last year, just coasting\*). I felt bad that my inclination is just to take it easy this last year. Come to terms with the fact that (perhaps) my whole career I have been battling nothing more than a windmill that was never going to change.

\

I don't give a shit about Medtronic or the Hugo project. It is just another rat's nest of problems to solve for the fun of solving problems--the thing that I love about being a software engineer--no more, no less. I have been lucky enough to work on several really useful-to-the-world rat's nests of problems. Companies have been willing to buy my time and talent to solve the problems they wanted to solve. But I don't owe them my allegiance or my gratitude. It was (and is) a simple *quid pro quo:* they paid me to work on their problem(s) and I solved nearly all of them I tackled on their behalf. Done.

\

Indeed, I worked hard to show the way to a better way to wrestle with those problems, not because I had a stake in them adopting that better way except that it would make me feel good to know I had helped to improve the process of getting from problem to maintainable solution. It didn't have to be *my way*, just a better way than what was the standard approach--because I could see that a better way existed. (Like watching Terese use the computer to get her things done but refusing to even consider taking an easier path to get to the same place. Very hard on me.)

\

Once again the question arises in my session: why should I do things I don't want to do? I have been thinking about this wrongly too. J brings up the examples of a mother doing lots of stuff that she doesn't want to do (giving birth, changing diapers, breastfeeding) and even goes so far as to admit that her gender-biased claim that men don't seem to accept that sometimes things just have to be done is probably too broad an indictment. But my claim isn't what a child says while showing a scrunched up, pouty face: I don't want to! I have done lots of things I didn't care to do but that needed doing at the time. When the time came I dutifully stepped up and got the thing done.

\

So here is my real claim, the thing I truly believe: I have the *right* to sidestep a thing I don't want to do if there is no true imperative that the thing be done at all. This fits perfectly with my deep need to know why something must be so, with the great relief I feel when I understand the *reason* for a thing that hurts, or is difficult, or which makes me angry. Just explain to me why. Just convince me it really has to be done because... Because if you can do that, I will step up. But if your argument is just "because that is what we do" or "because your mother said you have to" then I reserve the right to say NO.

\

So, Joelle, it breaks my heart to even consider this, but perhaps it is time to stop. Perhaps you are not the perfect therapist for me to continue to make progress on this Thomas Project that I have worked so hard on. Maybe you have given me as much/many gifts as you can bestow. Perhaps the fault is mine, that I cannot see how much benefit I could derive from some of the gifts you offer. That I am not ready yet to take advantage of the wisdom you have to offer. Like all those engineers I have tried to convince there is a better way, perhaps I too am just too profoundly bound to my own ways that I cannot imagine how/why your suggested way could be better.

\

\

\

\*It occurs to me that the "lazy" element is important here. Mom/dad sent the message load and clear: don't be lazy! Even to the extent that I internalized that concern, thinking of myself as somewhat lazy--but somehow in ways I can't name exactly. But that isn't right. The truth is that I have been hobbled by depression and discouragement, but I am anything but lazy in my approach to living life the best way I can.

\

\
