---
title: Running Journal 2025 — 2025-04-01
uid: 20250401T1218
created: '2025-04-01'
updated: '2025-07-22'
source: evernote
original_notebook: Running Journal 2025
tags:
- running-journal
aliases: []
---

Software Interfaces are, by their very nature, agreements between/among two or more software entities. That means there is a sort of contractual agreement between the participants and that those participants need to be agreement about what contract each is agreeing to. Presently, the interfaces employed by the Hugo RAS System are defined by source code only, with many of the details spread across multiple files. There is no single Source of Truth (SOT) where such details are collected and stored together. When a change is needed in the interface between entities, multiple changes are made to multiple files, leading to a significant potential source of errors. For example, we have seen misaligned code changes on each side of an interface that have led to bugs that were very difficult to find.

\

The Interface Project is designed to address this problem, bringing all the details of all interfaces in Hugo into a single SOT from which the necessary source code files are generated. This approach will eliminate a whole class of bugs that simply cannot occur. This Greenbelt Project targets just a single aspect of the Interface Project: developers will need an easy, reliable way to access the SOT database when they need to explore the data, change the data, add to

905the data, or delete deprecated data. Preliminary discussions on how this should be done have already shown that there are approximately as many opinions on this question as there are developers who will need to use whatever mechanism is implemented.

\

The DRM method offers a solid path to finding out what developers think they need, what the risks are to various possible approaches, and a set of requirements that will guide the construction of a useable developer \<=\> database interface.

ChatGPT says:

*Software interfaces are agreements between software entities, defining how they interact. Currently, the Hugo RAS System defines interfaces only in source code, with details scattered across multiple files. This lack of a single Source of Truth (SOT) leads to errors when changes are made, as misaligned updates across files have caused difficult-to-trace bugs.*

*The Interface Project aims to centralize all interface details into a single SOT, from which source code files will be generated, eliminating certain classes of bugs. The Greenbelt Project focuses on ensuring developers have an easy, reliable way to access and manage the SOT database.*

**

\

\
